feat: add architecture chapter (#915)
cairo-book/cairo-book: src/ch201-architecture.md

# Architecture

> Cairo is made of three software:
> 
> - Cairo compiler
> - Cairo VM
> - Cairo prover and verifier

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cairo is more than a programming language - it’s an entire designed to create provable computations. This framework includes multiple components:

1. The Cairo Compiler that compiles high-level code to machine instructions
2. The CVM (Cairo Virtual Machine) that executes these instructions
3. A STARK Prover and Verifier
```

> 

Reviewer: Move overview here

> The Cairo VM takes the Cairo bytecode produced
> by the Cairo compiler, interprets it, and provides
> the expected input for the prover to generate
> a STARK proof. The verifier can later
> (i.e. asynchronously) verify the
> correctness of the proof.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Cairo VM takes the Cairo bytecode produced
by the Cairo compiler, executes it, and provides
the expected input for the prover to generate
a STARK proof. The verifier can later
(i.e. asynchronously) verify the
correctness of the proof.
```

"interprets" assumes that there's an extra step before executing cairo bytecode

## Overview

> The Cairo VM has three core components,

Reviewer: Can a "component" be a "model"?

the _Execution Model_, also called CPU,
the _Memory model_ and the _Runner_.

The CPU defines the _Instruction Set Architecture_ (ISA):
the available instructions, the registers, and the state transition algorithm.

The Memory model defines how memory is managed when executing a Cairo program.

The Runner orchestrates all the different parts of the architecture,
it is the entrypoint and the endpoint when executing a program.
It handles the initialization of the run, the run, and its finalization.

Those three components are enough to run a basic Cairo program.

The Cairo architecture also contains two additional components,
builtins, used to increase performance and _Prover hints_,
or simply _hints_ to take advantage of the non-determinism
introduced by the memory model.

> ## Deterministic and Non-Deterministic Machine

Reviewer: This entire part is too rough: the introduction to non-determinism is confusing, it's a complex topic and approaching it properly is hard.

I think this requires further explanation.

> There are two different views of the Cairo VM,
> the _deterministic machine_ and the _non-deterministic_
> machine.
> 
> - When used by the Prover, the Cairo VM is deterministic.
> - When used by the Verifier, the Cairo VM is non-deterministic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Cairo VM can be viewed from two perspectives:

- As a Deterministic Machine when used by the Prover
- As a Non-Deterministic Machine when used by the Verifier
```

`+` explain _why_ and not _what_

non-deterministic machine:

- Hints are only available to the deterministic machine.
- The deterministic machine has full access to the memory,
  while the non-deterministic one has only partial access to the memory,
  called the _Public memory_.
- The deterministic machine has the full list of states (values taken
  by the registers) available while the non-deterministic one only has
  access to the _initial_ and _final_ states.

The following diagrams represent the architecture of the Cairo VM
as a deterministic machine and a non-deterministic one.

<div align="center">
  <img src="cairo-deterministic-architecture.png" alt="Cairo VM architecture as a deterministic machine</span>" width="800px"/>
</div>
<div align="center">
  <span class="caption">Cairo VM architecture as a deterministic machine</span>
</div>

<div align="center">
  <img src="cairo-non-deterministic-architecture.png" alt="Cairo VM architecture as a non-deterministic machine</span>" width="800px"/>
</div>
<div align="center">
  <span class="caption">Cairo VM architecture as a non-deterministic machine</span>
</div>

## Arithmetic Intermediate Representation - AIR

> When proving a program execution, one way is writing

Reviewer: Not easily understandable. The definition of an AIR, what it does, and what Cairo really improves, is not conveyed properly
